>> Woodruff: AS NEW DETAILS
EMERGE IN THE MURDER OF JAMES
FOLEY, WE TAKE A DEEPER LOOK AT
THE ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS--
THEIR BRUTAL CAMPAIGN OF FORCED
CONVERSION, KIDNAPPING AND
EXECUTION AND ITS RECRUITMENT OF
AMERICAN AND EUROPEAN FIGHTERS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, BANK
OF AMERICA AGREES TO PAY A
RECORD $17-BILLION FOR SELLING
RISKY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
BEFORE THE FINANCIAL CRISIS OF
2008.
PLUS, AFTER SURVIVING EBOLA,
AMERICANS TREATED AT EMORY
HOSPITAL ARE ABLE TO LEAVE AND
RETURN HOME.
>> TODAY IS A MIRACULOUS DAY.
I AM THRILLED TO BE ALIVE, TO BE
WELL AND TO BE REUNITED WITH MY
FAMILY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNOR OF
MISSOURI ORDERED THE NATIONAL
GUARD TODAY TO BEGIN WITHDRAWING
FROM THE ST. LOUIS SUBURB OF
FERGUSON.
THEY WERE DEPLOYED MONDAY, AMID
THE UNREST OVER THE POLICE
SHOOTING OF MICHAEL BROWN.
MEANWHILE, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL
ERIC HOLDER URGED AMERICANS
EVERYWHERE TO ADDRESS TENSIONS
BETWEEN MINORITIES AND POLICE.
HE SPOKE A DAY AFTER VISITING
FERGUSON TO TALK WITH LOCAL
RESIDENTS AND INVESTIGATORS.
>> THE NATIONAL OUTCRY WE HAVE
SEEN SPEAKS TO A SENSE OF
MISTRUST AND MUTUAL SUSPICION
THAT CAN TAKE HOLD IN THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN LAW
ENFORCEMENT AND CERTAIN
COMMUNITIES.
I WANTED THE PEOPLE OF FERGUSON
TO KNOW THAT I PERSONALLY
UNDERSTOOD THAT MISTRUST.
I WANTED THEM TO KNOW THAT WHILE
SO MUCH ELSE MAY BE UNCERTAIN,
THIS ATTORNEY GENERAL AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE STANDS
WITH THE PEOPLE OF FERGUSON.
>> Woodruff: THE STREETS OF
FERGUSON WERE RELATIVELY CALM
OVERNIGHT IN A FURTHER SIGN THAT
TENSIONS ARE EASING SOME.
SMALL CROWDS DEMONSTRATED
PEACEFULLY AND ONLY SIX PEOPLE
WERE ARRESTED.
POLICE ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT OF
THE 163 PEOPLE ARRESTED TO DATE,
ONLY SEVEN LIVE IN FERGUSON.
MEANWHILE, A POLICE OFFICER--
SEEN IN THIS AMATEUR VIDEO-- WAS
SUSPENDED FOR POINTING A SEMI-
AUTOMATIC RIFLE AT A CROWD OF
PROTESTERS TUESDAY NIGHT, AND
THREATENING TO KILL ONE OF THEM.
A FRIEND OF THE ACCUSED BOSTON
MARATHON BOMBER PLEADED GUILTY
TODAY TO OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
CHARGES.
DIAS KADYRBAYEV ALLEGEDLY
REMOVED EVIDENCE FROM A COLLEGE
ROOM, INCLUDING A BACKPACK
HOLDING EMPTIED FIREWORK
CASINGS.
UNDER A PLEA AGREEMENT, HE WILL
SERVE NO MORE THAN SEVEN YEARS.
THE 2013 BOMBING KILLED THREE
PEOPLE AND WOUNDED MORE THAN
260.
IN UKRAINE, THERE WAS NO BREAK
IN THE HEAVY FIGHTING AROUND THE
EASTERN CITIES OF DONETSK AND
LUHANSK.
AT LEAST 50 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
YESTERDAY, AS GOVERNMENT FORCES
PRESSED THEIR OFFENSIVE AGAINST
PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
MEANWHILE THE FIRST OF MORE THAN
200 TRUCKS IN A RUSSIAN RELIEF
CONVOY BEGAN CLEARING CUSTO
THEY'RE BEING INSPECTED BY
UKRAINIAN BORDER GUARDS.
THE RED CROSS HAS AGREED TO
OVERSEE DISTRIBUTION OF THE
HUMANITARIAN AID.
THE "ICE BUCKET CHALLENGE"
SWEEPING SOCIAL MEDIA NOW FACES
CHALLENGES OF ITS OWN.
THE CAMPAIGN FEATURES PEOPLE
BEING DOUSED WITH FREEZING WATER
TO RAISE MONEY FOR RESEARCH INTO
A.L.S, OR "LOU GEHRIG'S
DISEASE".
TODAY, THE ROMAN CATHOLIC
ARCHDIOCESE OF CINCINNATI
ORDERED ITS SCHOOLS NOT TO TAKE
PART BECAUSE THE RESEARCH
INVOLVES EMBRYONIC STEM CELLS.
AND, THE STATE DEPARTMENT RULED
AMBASSADORS MAY NOT RAISE MONEY
FOR ANY PRIVATE CAUSE-- HOWEVER
WORTHY.
AND ON WALL STREET: THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
60 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 17,039.
THE NASDAQ ROSE FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,532.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED MORE THAN
FIVE POINTS TO FINISH AT 1,992--
A NEW RECORD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
A LOOK AT THE MEMBERS, THE
MISSION AND THE TACTICS OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP, BANK OF
AMERICA MAKES A RECORD
SETTLEMENT WITH THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, FORMER VIRGINIA
GOVERNOR BOB McDONNELL TAKES THE
STAND IN HIS PUBLIC CORRUPTION
TRIAL, ISRAELI STRIKES KILL
SEVERAL HAMAS LEADERS IN GAZA,
PLUS, AMERICANS TREATED FOR
EBOLA REUNITE WITH THEIR
FAMILIES AND CAN RETURN HOME.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. STATE
GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT
IT IS GOING AFTER THE MAN WHO
BEHEADED AMERICAN JOURNALIST
JAMES FOLEY.
THIS WORD CAME AFTER NEWS THAT
AMERICAN SPECIAL FORCES TRIED
AND FAILED TO RESCUE THE
REPORTER AND OTHERS FROM HIS
ISLAMIC STATE CAPTORS.
>> WE ALL REGRET THAT THE
MISSION DID NOT SUCCEED, BUT I'M
VERY PROUD OF THE U.S. FORCES
THAT PARTICIPATED IN IT.
>> Woodruff: NEWS OF THE FAILED
HOSTAGE RESCUE BROUGHT DEFENSE
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL AND ARMY
GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY-- CHAIR
F--
TO THE PENTAGON BRIEFING ROOM
THIS AFTERNOON.
>> THIS OPERATION, BY THE WAY,
WAS A FLAWLESS OPERATION, BUT,
THE HOSTAGES WERE NOT THERE.
SO, WE'LL DO EVERYTHING THAT WE
NEED TO DO, THAT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WOULD EXPECT FROM THEIR
LEADERS, TO CONTINUE TO DO
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO GET OUR
HOSTAGES BACK.
>> Woodruff: THE RAID TARGETED
AN ISLAMIC STATE SITE IN
NORTHERN SYRIA EARLIER THIS
SUMMER, BUT FOUND NO SIGN OF
JAMES FOLEY OR ANY OTHER
HOSTAGES.
THE FACT IS, AS YOU ALL KNOW,
INTELLIGENCE DOESN'T COME
WRAPPED IN A PACKAGE WITH A BOW.
>> Woodruff: IN A STATEMENT
LAST NIGHT, THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL SAID IT NEVER
INTENDED TO DISCLOSE THE
OPERATION.
RATHER, IT SAID, WE ONLY WENT
PUBLIC WHEN IT WAS CLEAR A
NUMBER OF MEDIA OUTLETS WERE
PREPARING TO REPORT ON THE
OPERATION.
THE NEWS LEAKED AFTER THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP POSTED A
VIDEO TITLED "A MESSAGE TO
AMERICA", SHOWING FOLEY BEING
BEHEADED.
TODAY, ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC
HOLDER ANNOUNCED THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT IS GOING AFTER THE
KILLERS.
>> WE HAVE AN OPEN CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION AND THOSE WHO
WOULD PERPETRATE SUCH ACTS NEED
TO UNDERSTAND SOMETHING: THIS
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT, THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, THIS
NATION, WE HAVE LONG MEMORIES
AND OUR REACH IS VERY WIDE.
WE WILL NOT FORGET WHAT HAPPENED
AND PEOPLE WILL BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE ONE WAY OR THE
OTHER.
>> Woodruff: "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORTED TODAY THE UNITED
STATES REJECTED AN ISLAMIC STATE
DEMAND TO PAY A MULTI-MILLION
DOLLAR RANSOM FOR JAMES FOLEY'S
RELEASE.
OTHER WESTERN COUNTRIES HAVE
FUNNELED MILLIONS TO THE
MILITANTS IN EXCHANGE FOR THE
RELEASE OF THEIR CITIZENS.
MEANWHILE, THE BRITISH ACCENT OF
THE MILITANT IN THE BEHEADING
VIDEO RAISED NEW QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE ISLAMIC STATE'S REACH.
>> WE HAVE BROTHERS FROM
BANGLADESH, FROM IRAQ, FROM
CAMBODIA, AUSTRALIA, U.K.
>> Woodruff: THIS VIDEO--
RELEASED BY THE GROUP IN JUNE--
SHOWS MILITANTS IDENTIFYING
THEMSELVES AS BRITISH, URGING
WESTERNERS TO JOIN THEM, AND
SAYING "THE CURE FOR DEPRESSION
IS JIHAD".
THE VIDEO WAS REMOVED FROM YOU
TUBE SHORTLY AFTER ITS RELEASE.
FOR MORE ON THE ATTEMPTED RESCUE
OF JAMES FOLEY WE TURN TO KAREN
DEYOUNG OF "THE WASHINGTON
POST".
KAREN, WELCOME BACK TO THE
"NewsHour".
FIRST OF ALL, WHAT MORE IS KNOWN
ABOUT THIS RESCUE ATTEMPT?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK WE GOT A
LOT MORE DETAILS TODAY.
I THINK, AS WE REPORTED THIS
MORNING, THERE WERE AT LEAST TWO
BLACKHAWK HELICOPTERS ON THE
GROUND.
THEY DISCOVERED VERY QUICKLY
THAT THE HOSTAGES WEREN'T THERE.
THERE WAS A FIREFIGHTING IN
WHICH SOME OF THE ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS WERE KILLED.
ONE U.S. SOLDIER WAS WOUNDED,
NOT SERIOUSLY, BEFORE THEY TOOK
OFF.
THEY WERE NOT ON THE GROUND VERY
LONG.
>> Woodruff: AND WE JUST HEARD
DEFENSE SECRETARY HAGEL SAY IT
WAS NOT A FAILURE OF
INTELLIGENCE THAT EXPLAINS THE
FACT THAT THIS DIDN'T WORK OUT.
WHY DO THEY BELIEVE IT DIDN'T
WORK?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THEIR
DEPARTURE, THE MILITANT
DEPARTURE WITH THE HOSTAGES FROM
THIS PLACE TOOK PLACE NOT VERY
LONG BEFORE THE RAID HAPPENED.
THERE'S EVERY REASON TO BELIEVE
THAT, IN FACT, THEY WERE THERE,
THAT THE INTELLIGENCE WAS
CORRECT, BUT THAT THEY HAD LEFT.
IT'S NOT CLEAR IF IT WAS
DAYS TO TWO WEEKS BEFORE THE
RAID TOOK PLACE.
>> Woodruff: SO IT WAS NOT
KNOWN WHETHER THEY KNEW THIS WAS
COMING?
>> CORRECT, I HAVEN'T HEARD THAT
SUGGESTED, BUT THEY CERTAINLY
HAD BEEN THERE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT LEVEL OF
CONFIDENCE, KAREN, DOES THE
ADMINISTRATION NEED TYPICALLY IN
ORDER TO CARRY OUT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, SECRETARY
HAGEL SAID TODAY THAT ALONG WITH
GEN. DEMPSEY SAID THEY HAD
UNDERGONE A LOT OF PLANNING FOR
THIS RAID, THEY HAD PRACTICED IT
A NUMBER OF TIMES.
I THINK IT DOES REQUIRE A LOT OF
PLANNING, WHETHER WEEKS OR
MONTHS, I DON'T KNOW, BUT I
DON'T THINK IT'S SOMETHING THAT
THEY UNDERTAKE AS WE WERE TOLD
YESTERDAY WITHOUT A GREAT DEAL
OF PLANNING AND WITHOUT
INTELLIGENCE FROM MANY DIFFERENT
SOURCES.
THEY HAD SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE,
THEY HAD HUMAN INTELLIGENCE, SO
THEY DID HAVE GOOD REASON TO
BELIEVE THAT THIS IS WHERE THE
HOSTAGES WERE BEING HELD.
>> Reporter: PEOPLE ARE
FAMILIAR WITH THE SUCCESSFUL
RAID TO GO AFTER OSAMA BIN
LADEN.
I T S GET THE
IMPRESSION THAT SOMETHING LIKE
THIS IS USUALLY SUCCESSFUL.
DO WE KNOW WHETHER THERE ARENY E
THIS BY SPECIAL FORCES THAT WE
JUST NEVER HEAR ABOUT?
>> I COULDN'T SAY.
I THINK, IN THIS CASE, FOR THESE
HOSTAGES, WE'RE PRETTY
THERE HAVEN'T BEEN.
BUT REMEMBER, THE SUCCESSFUL
RAID AGAINST OSAMA BIN LADEN, I
THINK THE CONFIDENCE THAT HE WAS
ACTUALLY THERE WAS FAR LESS THAN
IT WAS WITH THIS RAID.
>> Woodruff: HUH.
AND IN THIS CASE, MORE
CONFIDENCE, BUT IT STILL DIDN'T
WORK.
I WAS STRUCK TODAY, KAREN, IN
ONE OF THE STORIES I READ, THAT
SOME PENTAGON OFFICIALS WERE
QUOTED SAYING THEY WERE ANGRY
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION MADE THE
DECISION TO CONFIRM THIS, THAT
THIS HAPPENED.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK AS THE
ADMINISTRATION ITSELF SAID LAST
NIGHT AND EARLIER TODAY, THERE
WERE SEVERAL NEWS ORGANIZATIONS
INCLUDING "THE WASHINGTON POST"
THAT WERE PREPARED TO RUN
STORIES ABOUT IT.
WE CERTAINLY WERE PREPARED TO
RUN A STORY ABOUT IT.
WE HAD THE INFORMATION THAT WE
THOUGHT WE NEEDED, WHEN THE
ADMINISTRATION DECIDED THAT THEY
WOULD BRIEF THEIR FEW
ORGANIZATIONS THAT HAD COME TO
THEM AND SAID, LOOK, WE HAVE
THIS INFORMATION, I DON'T THINK
WE GOT A GREAT DEAL MORE DETAIL
FROM THEM AND, OF COURSE, THEN
THEY PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED IT VERY
SHORTLY THEREAFTER.
AGAIN, I THINK THAT IT WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS GOING TO COME
OUT, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE
ADMINISTRATION DECIDED TO
PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGE IT OR NOT.
>> Woodruff: KAREN, ONE OTHER
THING -- WE HAVE BEEN TOLD THE
ADMINISTRATION OF THE UNITED
STATESHOUSE A POLICY -- OF THE
UNITED STATES HAS A POLICY OF
NEVER PAYING RANSOM IN A
SITUATION LIKE.
THIS DO YOU GET ANY SENSE IF
YOUR EXTENSIVE REPORTING THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING BEING
DISCUSSED, RETHOUGHT  OR WHAT?
>> I DON'T.
THE THE ADMINISTRATION STRONGLY
TODAY CAME OUT AND SAID, WE
DON'T PAY RANSOM, WE DON'T THINK
IT'S A GOOD TO PAY RANSOM,
THAT THAT PUTS MORE AMERICANS AT
RISK.
IT ACTUALLY IS AGAINST THE LAW
FOR AMERICANS TO PAY RANSOM TO
THE ISLAMIC STATE AND MANY OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS DESIGNATED AS
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS, AND I
THINK THE REQUEST DID NOT COME
AND WAS NOT TURNED DOWN BY THE
UNITED STATES, IT CAME TO THE
FAMILY OF JAMES FOLEY AND THE
GLOBALPOST, HIS EMPLOYER, AND
THE REQUEST WAS FOR ABOUT
$132 MILLION, AND I THINK THAT
NEITHER THEY NOR THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT WHOM THEY INFORMED
ABOUT THIS THOUGHT IT WAS A
SERIOUS OFFER.
IT WAS FAR, FAR MORE THAN
ANYTHING WE KNOW HAS BEEN PAID
FOR SOME OF THE OTHER EUROPEAN
HOSTAGES THAT HAVE BEEN
RELEASED.
>> Woodruff: KAREN DEYOUNG
WITH "THE WASHINGTON POST," WE
THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WE LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE THREAT THE ISLAMIC
STATE POSES AND HOW THEY'RE
RECRUITING WESTERNERS, FROM
STEVEN SIMON, WHO SERVED AS A
SENIOR DIRECTOR FOR MIDDLE
EASTERN AND NORTH AFRICAN
AFFAIRS ON THE NATIONAL SECURITY
COUNCIL STAFF FROM 2011 THROUGH
2012 AND SHADI HAMID, A FELLOW
AT THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION'S
CENTER FOR MIDDLE EAST POLICY.
HE'S ALSO THE AUTHOR OF "TEMP
TAKES OF POWER:  ISLAMISTS AND A
DEMOCRACY IN THE MIDDLE EAST."
WELCOME TO THE "NewsHour".
STEVEN, WE HAVE BEEN READING SO
MUCH ABOUT I.S.I.L., ISLAMIC
STATE RECENTLY.
HOW ARE THEY DIFFERENT FROM
THESE OTHER EXTREME GROUPS AND
PARTICULARLY AL QUAIDA?
>> THEY'RE DIFFERENT IN TERMS OF
THEIR TACTICS AND I THINK IN
TERMS OF THEIR OVERALL STRATEGY.
THEIR TACTICS, AS WE'VE SEEN,
ARE SAVAGE.
THEY DEPLOY SAVAGE RIAS A
TACTIC.
THIS IS A TACTIC THAT HAS BEEN
REPUDIATED BY CORE AL QUAIDA,
YOU KNOW, THE AL QUAIDA
LEADERSHIP IN SOUTH ASIA AND
ZAWAHRI, THE CURRENT LEADER FOR
AL QUAIDA AND THE REPLACEMENT
FOR BIN LADEN.
HE HAS SPECIFICALLY ENJOINED THE
LEADER OF I.S.I.S. FROM DOING
THE KINDS OF THINGS HE IS DOING
BECAUSE, FROM AN AL QUAIDA POINT
OF VIEW, IT ALIENNATES
MUSLIMS, AND THAT'S A SERIOUS
DEFECT IN THE STRATEGY.
>> Woodruff: SHADI HAMID, IS
THAT THE MAIN DIFFERENCE?
THAT THIS IS AN EXTREME GROUP
R WILLING TO TAKE EXTREME
ACTIONS?
>> THAT'S A KEY DIFFERENCE BUT
IT GOES BEYOND THAT.
THEY'RE NOT THE TERRORISTS MID
TO EARLY 2,000s BLOWING THINGS
UP AND KILLING INNOCENT
CIVILIANS WITHOUT ANY VISION OF
HOW TO BUILD SOMETHING.
WHAT'S SCARY ABOUT I.S.I.S. IS
THEY HAVE A GOVERNING PROGRAM.
THEY CONTROL AND HOLD TERRITORY,
PROVIDE SOCIAL SERVICES, RUN
LOCAL GOVERNMENT, PROVIDE SOME
MODICUM OF LAW AND ORDER SO THEY
ACTUALLY ARE ABLE TO OBTAIN SOME
LOCAL SUPPORT IN IRAQ AND SYRIA
PRECISELY FOR THOSE REASONS.
SO THE VICIOUSNESS ALONG WITH
GOVERNING.
>> Woodruff: STEVEN SIMON, IS
THAT ONE OF THE REASONS THEY
HAVE BEEN ABLE TO RETRACT THE
SUPPORTERS -- ATTRACT THE
SUPPORTERS, THE YOUNG MEN WHO
HAVE COME NOT ONLY FROM THE
MIDDLE EAST, FROM THAT PART OF
THE WORLD, BUT WE ALSO KNOW
WESTERNERS FROM EUROPE, EVEN
FROM THE UNITED STATES?
>> WELL, THIS SUCCESSFUL MUSLIM
MOVEMENT CHALLENGING THE WEST,
IN PARTICULAR, CHALLENGING THOSE
WHO ARE PERCEIVED TO WANT TO
KILL MUSLIMS IS A GALVANIZING
THING, I THINK, FOR MIM
MEN IN MANY PLACES INCLUDING
EUROPE.
IN IRAQ, IN PARTICULAR, THOUGH,
I.S.I.S. IS BENEFITING FROM THE
MISMANAGEMENT OF IRAQI AFFAIRS
BY THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT.
THE EXCLUSION OF SUNNIS FROM
PUBLIC GOODS, THE DISREGARD FOR
SUNNI INTERESTS IN THE WAKE OF
THE MASSIVE DISLOCATION THAT
FOLLOWED THE AMERICAN INVASION
OF IRAQ IN 2003, THERE'S A LOT
OF UNHAPPINESS AMONG THE SUNNI
MAJORITY POPULATION, ESPECIALLY
THOSE SUNNIS WHO ARE
CONCENTRATED IN THE AREAS WHERE
I.S.I.S. HAS GOTTEN A FOOTHOLD,
SO I.S.I.S. HAS BEEN ABLE TO
JOIN FORCES WITH THE BAATHISTS,
FORMER SADDAM PEOPLE AND OTHER
DISAFFECTED INDIVIDUALS TO GAIN
A PRETTY SERIOUS GRIP.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT IN
SYRIA, SHADI HAMID?
I MEAN, THEY WERE CLEARLY ABLE
TO SWELL THEIR FORCES, DRAW MORE
ADHERENCE IN SYRIA AND, AGAIN,
FROM THE WEST, FROM EUROPE, FROM
THE UNITED STATES.
WHAT'S THE APPEAL?
WE SAW IN THE VIDEO, THE
TERRIBLE VIDEO WITH JAMES FOLEY,
THE MAN WHO WAS THERE WITH HIM
HAD A BRITISH ACCENT.
>> THIS ACTUALLY WORRIES ME
WE'RE FOCUSING SO MUCH ON IRAQ
AND SENIOR ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS FOCUS ON THAT PART OF
IT.
THEY BARELY MENTION SYRIA, OBAMA
CLEARLY DOESN'T WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THAT.
BUT THE RISE OF I.S.I.S. IS MORE
DIRECTLY TIED TO SYRIA THAN
IRAQ, AND SYRIAN EXPERTS WERE
WARNING THIS ADMINISTRATION
AYEAR AND A HALF AGO SAYING IF
THIS POWER VACUUM CONTINUES AND
WE CAN'T SUPPORT THE MORE MAIN
STREAM REBEL FORCES, EXTREME
GROUPS LIKE I.S.I.S. ARE GOING
TO GAIN GROUND.
SO I THINK WE HAVE BEEN KIND OF
ASLEEP AT THE WHEEL.
AMERICANS ARE WAKING UP TO THE
THREAT RIGHT NOW THAT I.S.I.S.
HAS BEEN BEHEADING ARABS AND
MUSLIMS FOR OVER THE PAST YEAR.
>> Woodruff: SO WHY IS THAT AN
APPEAL?
WHAT'S THE APPEAL TO YOUNG
PEOPLE TO JOIN?
>> I THINK PART OF THE PROBLEM
WITH THE KIND OF ARAB SPRING IS
THAT PEACEFUL PROTEST DIDN'T
WORK, WORKING WITHIN THE
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS DIDN'T WORK,
SO WE HAD PEACEFUL PROTESTERS IN
SYRIA BUT THEY WERE BEING SHOT
DOWN AND SLAUGHTERED BY THE
ASSAD REGIME, WE HAD EXTREMIST
MOVEMENTS LIKE THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD TRYING TO WORK
WITHIN THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS --
YES, WE AMERICANS DON'T SHARE
THEIR VALUES, WE WERE DEEPLY
CONSERVATIVE AND LIBERAL -- BUT
THERE HAS TO BE A PROCESS.
I.S.I.S. SAYS YOU CAN HAVE AN
ISLAMIC STATE THROUGH BRUTE
FORCE AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO WAIT
AND BE GRADUIST ABOUT IT AND
THERE'S KIND OF AN APPEAL FOR
RADICALIZED EUROPEANS, THEY SEE
A PURITY TO THEIR VISION.
>> Woodruff: LET'S PICK UP ON
THAT, STEVENNEN, FOR YOUNG MEN
WHO ARE MUSLIM LIVING IN EUROPE
AND THE UNITED STATES, WHAT IS
THE DRAW?
>> I THINK THEY SEE THEMSELVES
ENGAGED IN A NOBLE AND VIRTUOUS
ENDEAVOR.
THEY'RE DOING SOMETHING THEY
FEEL IS A FIGHT FOR A REALLY
GOOD CAUSE, AND IT'S INTERESTING
BECAUSE THEY DON'T SEE
THEMSELVES AS GOING TO JOIN A
TERRORIST MOVEMENT.
THEY SEE THEMSELVES GOING TO
JOIN LIBERATORS, AND FOR THIS
REASON, FOR EXAMPLE, THEY TWEET
AND Facebook THEIR WAY TO THE
BATTLEFIELD, TO THE DELIGHT, I
HAVE TO SAY, OF LAW ENFORCEMENT
AND INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS IN
WESTERN EUROPE AND THE UNITED
STATES.
>> Woodruff: SO I GUESS, YOU
KNOW, STEPPING BACK, THE
QUESTION ON EVERYONE'S MIND,
SHADI HAMID, IS WHAT IS THE
THREAT HERE BOTH TO THE REGION,
THE WIDER REGION BEYOND SYRIA
AND IRAQ, AND THEN ULTIMATELY TO
EUROPE AND THEN TO THE UNITED
STATES?
>> SO WE SHOULDN'T UNDERESTIMATE
I.S.I.S.
I WORRY THAT WITH ALL THIS
RHETORIC ABOUT I.S.I.S. BEING
INEX PLEKABLY EVIL, TO USE JOHN
KERRY'S WORDS, THAT WE LOOK AT
THEM AS THESE FRINGE EXTREMISTS,
BUT WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THEIR
RISE AND THEIR STAYING POWER.
IF WE DON'T HAVE A PLAN TO
UNDERSTAND THE ROOTS OF THE
RIRSON CONFLICT, I.S.I.S. WILL
BE WITH US FOR THE FORESEEABLE
FUTURE -- THREE, FIVE, TEN
YEARS, GOD KNOWS H LONG.
SO THAT'S WHAT'S SO SCARY IS
THEY ARE A REALITY ON THE
GROUND.
IN SOME WAYS THEY'RE THE MOST
SUCCESSFUL EXTREMIST GROUP IN
MODERN HISTORY.
SO THERE ISN'T AN EASY SOLUTION
UNLESS THERE IS A COHERENT
VISION THAT ADDRESSES BOTH IRAQ
AND SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT WOULD
YOU ADD TO THAT, STEVEN SIMON?
WE HEARD SECRETARY HAGEL SAY
THIS IS A THREAT BEYOND ANYTHING
WE'VE EVER SEEN.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, LOOK, THERE
AREN'T THAT MANY I.S.I.S.
FIGHTERS.
THE NUMBERS VARY REALLY WIDELY
DEPENDING UPON WHO'S COUNTED AS
BEING AN I.S.I.S. AND WHO ISN'T.
THE INITIAL I.S.I.S. ATTACK IN
IRAQ CONSISTED OF ABOUT 3,000
FIGHTERS.
OKAY, THIS IS ESSENTIALLY A
MINUSCULE FORCE.
THE IRAQI ARMY CONSISTS OF
900,000 INDIVIDUALS, 900,000
SOLDIERS.
THE PENTAGON SAYS ABOUT A THIRD
OF THOSE ARE WORKABLE, YOU KNOW,
THAT THE UNITED STATES COULD
HELP ABOUT A THIRD OF THAT ARMY
FIGHT I.S.I.S.
THAT'S A HUGE ADVANTAGE.
THE PESHMERGA, THE KURDISH
FORCES HAVEN'T FIRED A SHOT IN
ANGER IN A LONG TIME.
THEY FOLDED INITIALLY BUT HAVE
COME BACK.
WHERE IS I.S.I.S. ACTUALLY GOING
TO GO IS REALLY THE QUESTION.
THEY CAN'T INVADE IRAN, THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO INVADE SAUDI
ARABIAIA THEY CAN'T INVADE
JORDAN, THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
INVADE TURKEY AND WON'T INVADE
ISRAEL.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU SEE THEM
AS CONTAINED?
>> I THINK THEY ARE.
THEIR TACTICS WILL EARN THEM
ENEMIES AND THE TACIT ALLIANCES
THEY FORMED IN IRAQ WON'T LAST.
>> EVEN IF THEY DON'T GAIN
ADDITIONAL TERRORIST, THEY
CONTROL A LARGE SWATH OF
TERRITORY IN IRAQ AND SYRIA SO
THERE IS AN EXTREMIST ISLAMIC
STATE IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
MIDDLE EAST AND THAT
DESTABILIZES IRAQ AND SYRIA AND
SPILLOVER EFFECTS IN JORDAN, IN
LEBANON, SO EVEN IF WE CONTAIN
IT, IT'S STILL A HUGE PROBLEM.
>> WE VERL HAVE GOTTEN A LOT OF
PEOPLE'S ATTENTION.
SHADI HAMID, STEVEN SIMON, THANK
YOU BOTH.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT TODAY ANNOUNCED IT
HAD SETTLED ITS INVESTIGATION
INTO BANK OF AMERICA WITH A
RECORD-BREAKING FINANCIAL
PENALTY.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: UNDER THE TERMS
OF THE DEAL, BANK OF AMERICA
WILL PAY A TOTAL OF NEARLY $17-
BILLION FOR ITS ROLE IN WRITING
AND SECURITIZING RISKY HOME
LOANS IN THE RUN-UP TO THE
HOUSING CRISIS.
MANY OF THOSE LOANS EVENTUALLY
FAILED.
ALMOST $10 BILLION OF THAT
FIGURE WILL GO TO THE U.S.
TREASURY, SIX STATES, AND OTHER
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES.
$7 BILLION IS EARMARKED TO AID
STRUGGLING CONSUMERS,
PARTICULARLY DISTRESSED
HOMEOWNERS.
AT A PRESS CONFERENCE THIS
MORNING, U.S. ASSOCIATE ATTORNEY
GENERAL TONY WEST SAID IT WAS AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THE DEAL.
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT TODAY'S
DEAL AND WHAT IMPACT IT AND
OTHER, EARLIER BANK SETTLEMENTS
MIGHT HAVE-- BOTH ON WALL STREET
AND ON MAIN STREET-- I AM JOINED
BY LYNN STOUT, PROFESSOR OF
CORPORATE AND BUSINESS LAW AT
CORNELL LAW SCHOOL AND DENNIS
KELLEHER, PRESIDENT AND C.E.O OF
bettermarkets.com, A
NONPARTISAN, NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT PROMOTES THE
PUBLIC INTEREST IN FINANCIAL
MARKETS.
WE INVITED BANK OF AMERICA AND
THE MAJOR BANKING INDUSTRY TRADE
GROUPS TO JOIN US-- THEY ALL
DECLINED OUR REQUESTS.
SO, LYNN STOUT, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
HOW BIG OF A DEAL IS THIS?
>> I THINK THIS REALLY IS A BIG
DEAL, AND IT'S OVERDUE.
I THINK WE SHOULD ALL BE GLAD TO
SEE IT.
$17 BILLION IS REAL MONEY, EVEN
TO A BANK.
IT AMOUNTS TO ABOUT 10% OF THE
VALUE OF ALL BANK OF AMERICA
STOCK AND A YEAR OF TWO OF THEIR
PROFITS SO THIS SHOULD REALLY
GET THE BANK'S ATTENTION.
>> Sreenivasan: DENNIS
KELLEHER, IS IT BIG ENOUGH?
>> IT'S NOT $17 BILLION.
THEY WILL GET A $4 BILLION TAX
DEDUCTION SO THE TAXPAYERS WILL
SUKDZ DIES THE SETTLEMENT,
TAKING IT DOWN TO 13-.  OF THE
$7 BILLION OF SO-CALLED SOFT
MONEY AND HOME OWNER RELIEF,
THAT REALLY NEVER WILL AMOUNT TO
MORE THAN 50 CENTS ON THE DOLLAR
SO YOU CUT OFF ANOTHER
$3 BILLION OR SO THERE.
IN FACT, IF YOU REALLY WANT TO
KNOW HOW INCREDIBLY TOUGH THIS
IS, THE BIGGEST MOVER ON THE
FINANCIAL STOCKS WAS BANK OF
AMERICA WHICH WENT UP OVER 4%.
WHEN THE STOCK GOES UP BECAUSE
THEY ANNOUNCE A SETTLEMENT, THAT
TELLS YOU HOW WALL STREET
PERCEIVES THE TOUGHNESS OR LACK
OF TOUGHNESS THIS SETTLEMENT
REALLY IS.
>> Sreenivasan: DID THE
PUNISHMENT NOT FIT THE CRIME?
WAS IT TOO SMALL, LYNN STOUT?
>> I THINK IT'S THE BEST WE
COULD HOPE FOR, REALLY.
THE REALITY IS I DON'T THINK
THERE'S ANY AMOUNT YOU COULD ASK
THE BANKS TO PAY THAT WOULD MAKE
UP FOR THE DAMAGE THEY'VE DONE
TO THE ECONOMY.
WE'VE NOW HAD SEVERAL
SETTLEMENTS IN THE BILLIONS.
THE DAMAGE IS MEASURED IN THE
TRILLIONS.
WITHOUT SHUTTING DOWN THE
BANKING INDUSTRY ENTIRELY,
THERE'S NO WAY TO MAKE UP FOR
THAT DAMAGE, BUT COMPARED TO
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE PAST,
WHERE REGULATORS HAVE SETTLED
THE BANKS FOR FAR SMALLER
AMOUNTS THAT REALLY WERE JUST A
SLAP ON THE WRIST, THIS WILL
INFLICT REAL PAIN, IT WILL GET
THE BANK'S ATTENTION, IT WILL
HELP TO DISCOURAGE UNETHICAL AND
FRAUDULENT BEHAVIOR IN THE
FUTURE.
SO I THINK ERIC HOLDER AND TONY
WEST DESERVE A PAT ON THE BACK.
IT'S HARD TO SAY THIS ISN'T A
LOT BETTER THAN WHAT WE'VE SEEN
BEFORE.
>> THE PROBLEM WITH THAT
ANALYSIS IS THAT, UNFORTUNATELY,
THESE SETTLEMENTS ARE CAREFULLY
CRAFTED MORE TO CONCEAL THAN TO
REVEAL.
SO, FOR EXAMPLE, IT'S IMPOSSIBLE
TO SAY WHETHER OR NOT
$17 BILLION IS APPROPRIATE OR
NOT.
AFTER ALL, THIS IS SUPPOSED TO
PUNISH CRIME AND DETER FUTURE
CRIME AND THE ONLY WAY TO KNOW
WHETHER OR NOT THIS IS A
REASONABLE AMOUNT OR SHOULD BE
LAUDED AND PATTED ON THE BACK IS
TO KNOW HOW MUCH DID THE BANK
MAKE FROM ITS YEARS OF SYSTEMIC
FRAUDULENT CONDUCT OR,
CONVERSELY, HARI, HOW MUCH DID
INVESTORS, CUSTOMERS AND CLIENTS
LOSE?
SO FOR EXAMPLE IF THE BANK MADE
$200 BILLION, $17 BILLION
SUBJECT LOOK GOOD FOR THE
$100 BILLION WAS LOST BY
INVESTORS AND CLIENTS,
$17 BILLION DOESN'T LOOK GOOD.
SO THEY DIDN'T PROVIDE ANY OF
THE KEY INFORMATION THAT ANYBODY
WOULD NEED TO ELF WAIT THE
SETTLEMENT.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, IF YOU WANT TO
DETER CRIME AND LAW BREAKING ON
WALL STREET OR ANYWHERE ELSE,
YOU OUGHT TO PUNISH INDIVIDUALS.
BANKS DO NOT COMMIT CRIMES,
BANKERS DO, AND NOT A SINGLE
BANKER WAS PUNISHED HERE, NOT
ONE.
THEY GET TO KEEP THEIR BONUSES,
THEIR POSITIONS, THEIR
PROMOTIONS AND EVERYTHING ELSE,
AND THE BANK GETS TO USE
SHAREHOLDERS' MONEY TO PAY OFF
AND BUY A GET-OUT-OF-JAIL-FREE
CARD FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
IT THAT NO INDIVIDUAL IS HELD
ACCOUNTABLE?
>> BANKS AND INSTITUTIONS DO
COMMIT CRIMES.
PEOPLE INSIDE BANK OF AMERICA
WERE DRIVEN BY INCENTIVES AND
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SCHEMES
WIDESPREAD IN THE INDUSTRY.
WE COULD CALL THEM PAY FOR
UNETHICAL PERFORMANCE SCHEMES.
A LOT IN THE SCHEMES WERE
DEMANDED BY THE CHAIR HORLDZ OF
THE BANKS THEMSELVES.
SO IT DOESN'T TROUBLE ME THE
SHAREHOLDERS WILL PAY SOME OF
THE SETTLEMENT.
THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR SOME OF
THE PAY PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES
THAT LED TO THIS PROBLEM IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
SO THE REALITY IS CORPORATIONS
ARE HUGE INSTITUTIONS.
THEY INFLUENCE THE BEHAVIOR OF
THE PEOPLE INSIDE THEM.
AT SOME POINT YOU HAVE TO FOCUS
ON THE INSTITUTION AND NOT JUST
ON THE INDIVIDUALS.
THE PEOPLE IN THE BANKING
INDUSTRY WHO KNEW IT WAS GOING
ON BUT FOR THE MOST PART AT THE
VERY LOW LEVEL, THEY WERE THE
MORTGAGE BROKERS, THEY WERE THE
UNDERWRITERS, IT WASN'T THE
C.E.O.s AND TOP EXECUTIVES,
MANY OF WHOM FOUND IT QUITE EASY
TO LOOK THE OTHER WAY AND NOT
KNOW WHAT WAS GOING ON.
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION OF
INDIVIDUALS IS VERY HARD IN
THESE CASES.
THE MOST EFFECTIVE STRATEGY MAY
BE JUST WHAT THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE IS PURSUING WHICH IS
TO HIT THE CORPORATE ENTITY
WHERE THE CORPORATE ENTITY HURTS
AND THAT IS ITS WALLET.
> I WISH THAT WAS TRUE.
NO ONE HAS ENOUGH INFORMATION TO
KNOW WHETHER IT IS OR NOT.
WHAT DID EXECUTIVES KNOW AND
WHEN DID THEY KNOW IT?
IT IS NOT CREDIBLE TO THINK THAT
LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
WERE INVOLVED FOR YEARS IN
DISTERCHG FRAUDULENT -- SYSTEMIC
FRAUDULENT TRACTS.
IF YOU READ THE STATEMENT OF
FACTS PUT OUT BY THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE, THEY IDENTIFIED
PEOPLE BY THEIR TITLES INCLUDING
CHAIRMAN OF COUNTRYWIDE SENDING
E-MAILS IN 2006, CLEARLY
INDICATING A KNOWLEDGE OF
FRAUDULENT PRACTICES THAT WERE
WIDESPREAD AT THE TIME.
SO YOU HAVE TO FOCUS ON
INDIVIDUALS AND HOLD INDIVIDUALS
ACCOUNTABLE, AND I DON'T -- I'M
OKAY WITH USING SHAREHOLDER
MONEY FOR AN INSTITUTION TO PAY
SOME OF THE FINES, BUT IF
INDIVIDUALS GET OFF SCOT-FREE
AND THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE
CRIMINALLY PROSECUTED THOUGH
COULD BE, BUT THEY'RE NOT EVEN
HELD CIVILLY LIABLE, SO IF
THERE'S NO DOWN SIDE FOR
INDIVIDUALS COLLECTING BONUSES,
BANKS ARE BAILED OUT WITH
TAXPAYER MONEY, YEARS LATER A
CUP BILLION OF SHAREHOLDER
DOLLARS MAKES IT GO AWAY, THAT
ACTUALLY REWARDS PAST CRIME AND
INCENTIVIZES FUTURE CRIME.
YOU HAVE TO GO AFTER BANKERS,
NOT JUST BANK.
>> Sreenivasan: DENNIS
KELLEHER, WHAT ABOUT SOME
RESPONSIBLE CAME FROM MERRILL
LYNCH, COUNTRYWIDE, INSTITUTIONS
BANK OF AMERICA PURCHASED,
SHOULD BANK OFRI
LIABLE?
>> AS LYNN KNOWS, IT'S STANDARD
CORPORATE PRACTICE AND HAS BEEN
FOR 100 YEARS THAT AN ACQUIRER
ACQUIRES THE ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES OF AN INSTITUTION
AND THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED IN THIS
CASE.
IT'S ROUTINE AND BORING AND
HAPPENS ALL THE TIME.
THEY TOOK THE POSITION OR TRIED
TO CLAIM THAT THEY SHOULD GET
EXTRA CREDIT BECAUSE THEY DID IT
AS A SERVICE TO THE COUNTRY IN A
MIDDLE OF A CRISIS.
THAT WAS FACTUALLY FALSE AND THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REJECTED
IT AS THEY SHOULD HAVE.
THEY CLOSED COUNTRYWIDE IN EARLY
2008 AND BOUGHT MERRILL LYNCH
AFTER TRYING FOR YEARS SO TOOK
AN ADVANTAGE OF AN OPPORTUNITY.
THERE WAS AN UPSIDE
NOTWITHSTANDING THE DOWN SIDE
LARGELY TO COUNTRYWIDE.
SO THAT'S A RED HERRING THE
BANK'S TRYING TO DISTRACT PEOPLE
WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: LYNN STOUT,
THE DOOR HAS BEEN LEFT OPEN FOR
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION, BUT
WHAT'S THE LIKELIHOOD THAT'S THE
AVENUE PURSUED?
>> THAT WILL DEPEND ON THINGS
WE'RE NOT PRIVY TO.
I WOULD HAVE TO SAY THIS
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE SEEMS TO
BE SOMEWHAT SERIOUS SO WE CAN
ALL HOPE THEY'RE GOING TO DO THE
IN-DEPTH INVESTIGATION DENNIS IS
CALLING FOR.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THIS
SETTLEMENT DOES NOT PRECLUDE
FUTURE CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
AGAINST THE BANK OR INDIVIDUALS.
IT'S IN ADDITION TO, NOT A
SUBSTITUTE FOR CRIMINAL
PROSECUTIONS.
BUT WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO SHOW ANY TOP EXECUTIVES
HAD THE KIND OF DEEP KNOWLEDGE
THAT YOU NEED TO SHOW TO GET A
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION OR CRIMINAL
CONVICTION, THAT REMAINS TO BE
SEEN.
>> I THINK CRIMINAL PROSECUTION
IS A SIDESHOW.
THE BAR IS SO HIGH AND S
DIFFICULT, PARTICULARLY AS LYNN
ALLUDED TO EARLIER, THE SENIOR
EXECUTIVES GET TO PRETEND LIKE
THEY LOOK THE OTHER WAY AND
THERE'S NO E-MAILS, BUT CIVIL
LITIGATION AND CIVIL PROSECUTION
SHOULD BE AT THE FRONT AND TOP
OF THE LIST.
>> Sreenivasan: DENNIS
KELLEHER AND LYNN STOUT, THANK
YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, HARI.
YOU'RE WELCOME, HARI.
>> Woodruff: FORMER VIRGINIA
GOVERNOR BOB McDONNELL FOUND
HIMSELF BACK ON THE WITNESS
STAND TODAY FIGHTING CHARGES OF
POLITICAL CORRUPTION AND TALKING
OPENLY ABOUT HIS MARITAL
STRUGGLES.
IT MARKED A STARTLING FALL FOR
THE REPUBLICAN, WHO JUST TWO
YEARS AGO WAS ON MITT ROMNEY'S
SHORT LIST OF POTENTIAL VICE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
REPORTERS SWARMED FORMER
GOVERNOR BOB McDONNELL AS HE
ARRIVED AT COURT TODAY TO TAKE
THE STAND FOR A SECOND DAY, IN
HIS PUBLIC CORRUPTION TRIAL.
>> GOVERNOR, IN THE SPECTRUM OF
DIFFICULT THINGS YOU'VE DONE IN
YOUR LIFE, HOW DOES THIS RANK--
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO
TODAY?
>> 38 YEARS OF PUBLIC SERVICE, I
NEVER THOUGHT I'D BE HAVING TO
TESTIFY IN A TRIAL LIKE THIS.
SO IT'S DIFFICULT, SURE.
>> Woodruff: IN COURT, McDONNELL
DESCRIBED IN DETAIL HOW
RELATIONS WITH HIS WIFE,
MAUREEN, HAD BROKEN DOWN,
INCLUDING CLASHES OVER THE WAY
SHE TREATED HER STAFF.
IT'S PART OF A DEFENSE STRATEGY
TO SHOW THE COUPLE COULD NOT
HAVE ENGAGED IN A CRIMINAL
CONSPIRACY BECAUSE THEY WERE
BARELY SPEAKING TO EACH OTHER.
PROSECUTORS ALLEGE THEY ACCEPTED
MORE THAN $165,000 IN GIFTS AND
LOANS FROM RICHMOND BUSINESSMAN
JONNIE WILLIAMS, SR. TO PROMOTE
HIS DIETARY SUPPLEMENT COMPANY
STAR SCIENTIFIC.
THE ITEMS INCLUDED A ROLEX WATCH
WITH A PRICE TAG OF MORE THAN
$6,000.
McDONNELL TESTIFIED WEDNESDAY
THAT HIS ACTIONS ON BEHALF OF
THE COMPANY DID NOT GO BEYOND
TYPICAL CONSTITUENT OUTREACH.
THE TRIAL REPRESENTS A STUNNING
TURN OF EVENTS FOR THE ONE-TIME
RISING STAR IN REPUBLICAN
POLITICS.
IF CONVICTED, VIRGINIA'S FORMER
GOVERNOR AND FIRST LADY COULD BE
SENTENCED TO AS MUCH AS 20 YEARS
IN PRISON-- EACH-- AND FACE
LARGE FINES.
CRAIG CARPER IS A POLITICAL
REPORTER FOR W.C.V.E IN
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, PUBLIC RADIO
AND WAS IN THE COURTROOM TODAY.
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US.
FIRST, IF YOU COULD, LAY OUT FOR
US THE ESSENCE OF THE
PROSECUTION'S CASE AGAINST THE
GOVERNOR AND HIS WIFE.
>> SURE.
WELL, THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME,
JUDY.
THE PROSECUTION ALLEGES HERE
THAT THE McDONALDS ACCEPTED
THESE GIFTS AND LOANS, NOW
REVISED FIGURES SHOW IT'S
$177,000 WORTH OF GIFTS AND
LOANS IN EXCHANGE FOR OFFICIAL
ACTS.
THERE'S A LOT OF TALK ABOUT WHAT
CONSTITUTES AN OFFICIAL ACT FROM
THE DEFENSE.
>> Woodruff: AND IN TERMS OF
THE PROSECUTION'S CASE, WHO WERE
THEIR MAIN WITNESSES?
WHAT WAS THE MAIN EVIDENCE THEY
SHOWED?
>> SURE.
NOW, IT'S FAIR TO POINT OUT THAT
A LOT OF THESE WITNESSES WERE
CALLED BY BOTH DEFENSE AND
PROSECUTION AND, OF COURSE, THEY
GOT THE OPPORTUNITY TO
CROSS-EXAMINEEM.
BUT, FIRST, WE SAW SOME OF THE
McDONALD FAMILY, TWO OF THE
CHILDREN TESTIFIED.
WE SAW MCDONALD'S SISTER LATER
ON TESTIFY FOR THE DEFENSE.
SHE WAS ALSO HIS BUSINESS
PARTNER IN SOME OF THESE REAL
ESTATE INVESTMENTS THAT SHE
MADE, THE CENTER OF A LOT OF
WHAT THESE LOANS WERE GOING
TOWARD.
WE SAW MEMBERS OF THE MCDONALD
CABINET -- FRIENDS, FAMILY --
WE'VE SEEN ACCOUN ACCOUNTANTS, F
FOCUS ON THE ACCOUNTANTS AND THE
McDONALDS' PERSONAL FINANCES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS THE
THRUST OF THE CASE THEY'RE
PRESENTING IN THE DEFENSE OF THE
GOVERNOR AND MRS. McDONALD?
>> REALLY, IT'S TWOFOLD.
THEY'RE TRYING TO HIGH LIGHT,
BASICALLY, A BROKEN MARRIAGE IS
WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO SHOW,
THAT THE McDONALDS SPENT 22
YEARS IN PUBLIC SERVICE IN
DIFFERENT CAPACITIES AND, WITH
THAT, HE SPENT LESS AND LESS
TIME AT HOME AS HIS SENIORITY
GREW IN THE HOUSE OF DELEGATES
AND THEN LATER AS ATTORNEY
GENERAL AND FINALLY COMING TO A
HEAD AS GOVERNOR.
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS THE
DEFENSE IS TRYING TO HIGHT.
THE OTHER IS THAT McDONALD
REALLY GAVE NO SPECIAL TREATMENT
TO MR. WILLIAMS THAT HE WOULDN'T
GIVE ANY OTHER VIRGINIA
BUSINESS.
HE RAN ON THE PLATFORM BOBS FOR
JOBS.
SO HE'S SAYING THIS IS NOT
UNLIKE WHAT HE DID FOR THOUSANDS
OF OTHERS.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT ARE HE
AND THE OTHER DEFENSE WITNESSES
SAYING ABOUT THE GIFTS -- THE
ROLEX WATCH, I GUESS THE CLOTHES
THAT MRS. McDONALD GOT, THE
VACATIONS AND SO FORTH?
>> SURE.
WELL, THERE'S BEEN, YOU KNOW, AN
EFFORT ON THE PART OF THE
DEFENSE TO ISOLATE GOVERNOR
McDONALD AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
REALLY, YOU'VE GOT THE DEFENSE
LAWYERS FOR MR. AND
MRS. McDONALD KIND OF PUTTING
THAT BLAME ON HIS WIFE MAUREEN,
REALLY -- REALLY PULLING THE
BLAME ON HIS WIFE MAUREEN, THE
ARGUMENT BEING SHE WAS NOT A
PUBLIC OFFICIAL, NOT AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL AND THERE WERE NO LAWS
AGAINST HER DOING THINGS TO
BENEFIT COMPANIES.
YOU CAN'T REALLY REGULATE
PRIVATE CITIZENS IN TERMS OF
GIFTS FOR ACTS.
>> Woodruff: RIGHT.
SO THE SEPARATION TECHNIQUE.
HOW TEES GOVERNOR HIMSELF DOING
ON THE STAND?
HE WAS ON THE STAND YESTERDAY,
BACK AGAIN BRIEFLY TODAY.
>> JEFF SHAPIRO FROM THE
RICHMOND TIMES DISPATCH SUMMED
IT UP WELL, HE SAID THIS IS
GOVERNOR McDONALD'S FINAL
CAMPAIGN.
HE'S IN CAMPAIGN MODE.
HE'S VERY RELAXED.
HE'S VERY CALM, AT TIMES SOMBER,
AND HE'S CERTAINLY GOT AN LITTLE
MORE TIRED LATE INTO THE DAY
TODAY, BUT VERY POISED, VERY
COMPOSED.
>> Woodruff: BUT HE WAS ALSO,
AS I UNDERSTAND IT, FROM WHAT
I'VE READ, EMOTIONAL IN
DESCRIBING HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH
HIS WIFE.
HE GOT INTO SOME PERSONAL
DETAILS ABOUT THE TWO OF THEM.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
THAT'S TRUE.
HE DID.
YOU KNOW, HE OPENED HIS
TESTIMONY TODAY SAYING THAT, YOU
KNOW, HE'S A PRIVATE PERSON,
THIS MAKES HIM VERY
UNCOMFORTABLE, BUT HE DID NOT
PULL ANY PUNCHES TODAY WHEN
HIGHLIGHTING HIS WIFE'S ROLE IN
THIS SCANDAL.
>> Woodruff: SO IS THERE ANY
KIND OF CONSENSUS, CRAIG CARPER,
ABOUT WHETHER THE GOVERNOR IS
HELPING THE DEFENSE OR NOT?
WHAT ARE PEOPLE SAYING?
>> I THINK HE IS, AT THIS POINT.
I THINK THAT'S THE GENERAL SENSE
RIGHT NOW.
THEY NEEDED TO TURN THINGS
AROUND BECAUSE YESTERDAY THEY
HEARD SOME PRETTY -- I DON'T
KNOW, IT WAS NEGATIVE -- THERE
WAS SOME NEGATIVE CROSS
QUESTIONING FROM THE PROSECUTION
OF ONE OF THEIR OWN WITNESSES
WHO IS A FINANCIAL EXPERT, AND
THE PROSECUTION WAS ABLE TO HIGH
LIGHT SEVERAL HOLES IN HIS
TESTIMONY AND THE EVIDENCE HE
HAD PRESENTED.
>> AND FINAL QUESTION, WE KNOW
MRS. McDONALD NOT EXPECTED TO
TESTIFY.
IS THIS CASE GETTING A LOT OF
ATTENTION IN THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA, PEOPLE PAYING CLOSE
ATTENTION TO IT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY.
WE'VE GOT JUST ABOUT EVERY MEDIA
OUTLET IN THE STATE HERE.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT, CRAIG
CARPER, WCVE PUBLIC RADIO, WE
THANK YOU, IN RICHMOND.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: FOLLOWING THIS
WEEK'S CEASE FIRE COLLAPSE,
THERE WAS HEAVY FIGHTING AGAIN
TODAY BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HAMAS.
MEMBERS OF THE PALESTINIAN
GROUP'S MILITARY LEADERSHIP WERE
AMONG THE CASUALTIES.
HARI IS BACK WITH THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: THOUSANDS
MARCHED THROTHE STREETS OF
GAZA TODAY IN THE FUNERAL
PROCESSION OF THREE SENIOR HAMAS
MILITARY COMMANDERS.
THE MEN-- IDENTIFIED AS MOHAMMED
ABU SHAMMALA AND RAED AL-ATTAR,
MOHAMMED BARHOUM-- WERE KILLED
BY A PRE-DAWN ISRAELI AIR
STRIKE.
THE MILITANT GROUP QUICKLY
DECRIED THE KILLING.
>> ( translated ): THE
ASSASSINATION OF THE AL-QASSAM
LEADERS IN RAFAH IS A BIG
ISRAELI CRIME THAT WILL NOT
SUCCEED IN BREAKING THE WILL OF
OUR PEOPLE AND WON'T WEAKEN THE
RESISTANCE.
AND THE OCCUPATION WILL PAY THE
PRICE, WILLING.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT ISRAELI
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU HAILED THE
INTELLIGENCE BEHIND THE ATTACK
AND VOWED THERE'S MORE TO COME.
translated ): I WANT TO
COMMEND THE EXCELLENT WORK OF
THE OPERATIONAL AND INTELLIGENCE
UNITS OF THE SHIN BET SECURITY
SERVICE, AND ALL ITS PEOPLE, AND
ITS HEAD, YORAM COHEN.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK
TOGETHER TO REACH THE TARGETS,
TO RESTORE PEACE AND SECURITY
FOR AN EXTENDED PERIOD TO THE
CITIZENS OF ISRAEL.
>> Sreenivasan: A DAY EARLIER,
AN ISRAELI AIR STRIKE MISSED
MOHAMMED DEIF, THE TOP HAMAS
COMMANDER, BUT HIS WIFE AND
INFANT SON WERE KILLED.
ORDINARY GAZANS APPEALED TODAY
FOR AN END TO THE AERIAL
ASSAULT.
>> ( translated ): EVERY DAY
THERE ARE PEOPLE AND MEN, WOMEN,
ELDERLY AND CHILDREN GETTING
KILLED, EVERYBODY.
THEY MOCK US BY GIVING US A BIT
OF FOOD TO DISTRACT US, THEY ARE
KILLING US AND BURYING US AT THE
SAME TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, A
MORTAR ROUND FIRED FROM GAZA
SERIOUSLY WOUNDED ONE MAN
IN SOUTHERN ISRAEL TODAY.
OVERALL, MORE THAN 100 ROCKETS
WERE FIRED, LEAVING ISRAELIS
WITHIN THEIR REACH TO PONDER
STAYING, OR GOING.
>> THIS IS MY HOME, AND I'LL
STAY HERE, AND I JUST HOPE THESE
PEOPLE, MAYBE IT WILL CALM DOWN,
IT HAS TO CALM DOWN, IT CAN'T
GET MUCH WORSE.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS THE JUNE
KILLING OF THREE ISRAELI
TEENAGERS AND THE APPARENT
REVENGE KILLING OF A PALESTINIAN
TEEN THAT SPARKED THIS CONFLICT.
A TOP HAMAS OFFICIAL HAS NOW
ACKNOWLEDGED FOR THE FIRST TIME
THAT HIS GROUP KIDNAPPED THE
ISRAELI TEENS.
THERE WERE ALSO ACCUSATIONS
ABOUT THE COLLAPSE OF PEACE
TALKS IN EGYPT THIS WEEK.
OFFICIALS OF THE PALESTINIAN
AUTHORITY-- WHICH RULES THE WEST
BANK-- CLAIMED THE GULF STATE OF
QATAR PRESSURED HAMAS TO
SCUTTLE THE EFFORT.
FOR MORE ON THE FIGHTING BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND HAMAS, I SPOKE TO
JOSEF FEDERMAN OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS A SHORT TIME AGO.
JOSEF, HOW SIGNIFICANT OF A BLOW
TO HAMAS WAS THE KILLING OF
THESE THREE LEADERS?
>> WELL, WE CAN TELL THAT
THEY'RE DEFINITELY HIGH-QUALITY
TARGETS.
WE COULD TELL BY THE REACTION WE
SAW IN THE STREETS OF GAZA
TODAY, THOUSANDS, MAYBE EVEN
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WERE
OUT AT THE FUNERAL TODAY,
CLEARLY THEY ARE VALUABLE
PEOPLE, IT'S CLEARLY A
DEMORALIZING BLOW TO HAMAS AND A
BIG MORAL VICTORY, I THINK, TO
ISRAEL.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT EFFECT IT
HAS ON THE BATTLEFIELD AND WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IN THE PAST IS EVERY
TIME ISRAEL KILLS A SENIOR
TARGET, ANOTHER ONE SEEMS TO
SPRING UP AND THEY CAN THEIR
PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DO WE
KNOW ABOUT ISRAEL'S ABILITY TO
TRACK AND TARGET THESE THREE
INDIVIDUALS IN.
>> YEAH, IT SEEMS TO BE KUWAIT A
SOPHISTICATED INTELLIGENCE
OPERATION.
YOU HEARD THE PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU PRAISING HIS
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES.
WHAT MADE THIS SO INTERESTING IS
THESE THREE MEN WERE
UNDERGROUND, THEY HAVE BEEN IN
HIDING FOR THE DURATION OF THIS
WAR THE PAST MONTH OR SO AND,
FROM WHAT WE UNDERSTAND,
LITERALLY THEY CAME OUT OF A
TUNNEL, HAD BEEN IN HIDING AND
IN A MATTER OF MINUTES ISRAEL
TRACKED THEM DOWN AND KILLED
THEM.
SO THAT TELLS YOU SOMETHING
ABOUT ISRAEL'S TRACKING
ABILITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE SEEMS TO
BE SOMETHING DIFFERENT ABOUT
THIS ROUND OF FIGHTING THAN IN
THE PAST FEW WEEKS BEFORE THE
CEASE FIRE.
WHAT IS IT?
>> WELL, I THINK YOU SEE BY THIS
KILLING TODAY, ISRAEL SEEMS TO
BE MOVING INTO A NEW PHASE.
IN THE PAST, THERE HAVE BEEN
LOTS OF CASUALTIES, OVER 2,000
PALESTINIANS HAVE BEEN KILLED
BUT MOST HAVE BEEN IN THE HEAT
OF BATTLE, GROUND-LEVEL
SOLDIERS.
NOW ISRAEL SEEMS TO BE GOING
AFTER THE HIGHER LEVEL AFTER
POLITICAL OPERATIVES, IN
ADDITION TO THESE THREE, ISRAEL,
YESTERDAY, WENT AFTER THE CHIEF
OF HAMAS' ENTIRE MILITARY WING,
THE HIGHEST-QUALITY TARGET THEY
COULD GET.
IT'S STILL UNCLEAR.
HAMAS SAYS HE SURVIVED.
THEY HAVEN'T PROVIDED EVIDENCE.
ISRAEL'S REMAINING QUIET ABOUT
THAT SO IT'S NOT QUITE CLEAR
WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM, BUT WE DO
FEEL LIKE WE'RE IN A NEW TYPE OF
PHASE WHEN IAEL'S GOING AFTER
POLITICAL TYPE TARGETS.
>> Sreenivasan: WE REPORTED
TODAY A NUMBER OF HAMAS TOOK
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
KIDNAPPING AND KILLING OF THOSE
THREE TEENAGERS THAT REALLY
STARTED THIS NEWEST ROUND OF
CONFLICTS.
WAS THAT A SURPRISE IN THE
REGION?
>> IT WAS A BIG SURPRISE BECAUSE
HAMAS HAS BEEN KEEPING QUIET
ABOUT THIS.
ACTUALLY, THEY'VE BEEN VERY
PROUD, OR THEY PRAISED THE
KIDNAPPING REPEATEDLY BUT HAVE
ALWAYS BEEN CAREFUL TO SAY THAT
THEY DIDN'T DO IT OR DIDN'T KNOW
WHO DID IT.
SUDDENLY ONE OF HAMAS' TOP
PEOPLE, AN COMPILED LEADER WHO
LIVES IN TURKEY, IS CLAIMING
RESPONSIBILITY.
THAT SEEMS TO CHANGE THE
EQUATION IN MANY WAYS BECAUSE
NOW HAMAS IS ESSENTIALLY
ADMITTING THEY PLAYED A ROLE IN
SETTING OFF THIS WHOLE CHAIN OF
EVENTS THAT LED TO THIS WAR.
>> Sreenivasan: LET'S TALK A
LITTLE ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING ON
THE DIPLOMATIC FRONT.
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE TALKS IN
CAIRO AND WHY DID THEY END?
>> WELL, WE'RE NEVER GOING TO
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED IN
THESE TALKS.
IT WAS BEHIND CLOSED DOORS,
OBVIOUSLY.
EGYPTIAN INTELLIGENCE WERE
HOSTING THINGS.
BUT WHAT WE DO UNDERSTAND IS,
YOU KNOW, TWO SIDES WERE TAKING
MAXIMALIST POSITIONS.
ISRAEL WANTS HAMAS TO GIVE UP
ALL ITS WEAPONS, HAMAS WANTS A
COMPLETE END TO THE GAZA
BLOCKADE.
THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN SO
THEY'RE WRANGLING, I THINK, OVER
HOW TO FIND A COMPROMISE AND
ISRAEL -- NEITHER SIDE, REALLY,
WAS WILLING TO GIVE ENOUGH TO
REACH SOMETHING IN THE MIDDLE.
NOW THAT DIPLOMACY APPEARS TO
HAVE FAILED, NOW THAT WE HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN A WAR THE PAST
MONTH, ISRAEL WENT IN WITH
GROUND TROOPS, HEAVY FORCE,
NEITHER ONE OF THOSE SCENARIOS
SEEMED TO BRING AN END TO THIS
AND IT MAKES YOU WONDER HOW LONG
THE LATEST PHASE WILL GO ON.
SEEMS LIKE IT COULD DRAG ON FOR
A WHILE.
>> Sreenivasan: ARE THERE ANY
PLANS BY EITHER SIDE TO TRY TO
RETURN TO A NEGOTIATING TABLE OF
ANY SORT, POSSIBLY IN CAIRO OR
ELSEWHERE?
>> YOU DON'T HEAR IT DIRECTLY
FROM THE SIZE BUT YOU HEAR EGYPT
IS CALLING FOR A CEASE FIRE
BEHIND THE SCENES, URGING PEOPLE
TO RETURN TO THE NEGOTIATING
TAIFNLT WE WITH SEE DEVELOPMENTS
ELSEY, QATAR, A GULF COUNTRY
CLOSE TO HAMAS, IS HOSTING
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT MAHMOUD
ABBAS AND MAHMOUD'S LEADER THIS
EVENING, SO THERE IS HOPE ON
THIS EVENING.
WE SEE MOVEMENT IN THE EUROPEAN
SECURITY COUNCIL.
SOME EUROPEAN COUNTRIES ARE
TRYING TO PUT TOGETHER A
RESOLUTION WITH INTERNATIONAL
SUPPORT CALLING FOR AN
INTERNATIONAL CEASE FIRE WITH
THE POSSIBILITY OF AN
INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE TO HELP
ENFORCE IT.
SO THERE IS SOME MOVEMENT BUT
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE ANYTHING WILL
HAPPEN IN THE NEXT 24 HOURS.
>> Sreenivasan: JOSEF FEDERMAN
OF THE ASSOCIATED PRESS, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
SOME GOOD NEWS IN WHAT HAS BEEN
A VERY TROUBLING STORY, AN
AMERICAN DOCTOR WHO CONTRACTED
EBOLA IN WEST AFRICA WAS
DISCHARGED FROM AN ATLANTA
HOSPITAL TODAY.
HE AND THE HOSPITAL STAFF SPOKE
TO REPORTERS AFTER HIS RELEASE.
A SMILING DOCTOR KENT BRANTLEY
WAS GREETED BY APPLAUSE INSIDE
ATLANTA'S EMORY UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL WHERE DOCTORS TODAY
ANNOUNCED THE 33-YEAR-OLD HAD
MADE A FULL RECOVERY AFTER BEING
INFECTED WITH THE EBOLA VIRUS
WHILE WORKING IN A HOSPITAL IN
LIBERIA.
>> TODAY IS A MIRACULOUS DAY.
I AM THRILLED TO BE ALIVE, TO BE
WELL AND TO BE REUNITED WITH MY
FAMILY.
>> Woodruff: STANDING ALONGSIDE
THE MEDICAL TEAM THAT TREATED
HIM, BRANTLEY RECALLED THE FIRST
DAY OF WHAT WOULD BE A NEAR-
MONTH LONG BATTLE FOR HIS LIFE.
>> ON WEDNESDAY, JULY 23, I WOKE
UP FEELING UNDER THE WEATHER,
AND THEN MY LIFE TOOK AN
UNEXPECTED TURN AS I WAS
DIAGNOSED WITH EBOLA VIRUS
DISEASE.
>> Woodruff: ON AUGUST SECOND,
DOCTOR BRANTLEY WAS ADMITTED TO
EMORY UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL AFTER
BEING FLOWN OUT OF LIBERIA.
WHERE HE HAD CONTRACTED THE
VIRUS.
>> THANK YOU TO EMORY UNIVERSITY
HOSPITAL AND ESPECIALLY TO THE
MEDICAL STAFF IN THE ISOLATION
UNIT.
YOU TREATED ME WITH EXPERTISE,
YET WITH SUCH TENDERNESS AND
COMPASSION.
FOR THE LAST THREE WEEKS YOU
HAVE BEEN MY FRIENDS AND MY
FAMILY.
AND SO MANY OF YOU MINISTERED TO
ME NOT ONLY PHYSICALLY, BUT ALSO
SPIRITUALLY, WHICH HAS BEEN AN
IMPORTANT PART OF MY RECOVERY.
I WILL NEVER FORGET YOU AND ALL
THAT YOU HAVE DONE FOR ME.
AND THANK YOU TO MY FAMILY, MY
FRIENDS, MY CHURCH FAMILY AND TO
ALL WHO LIFTED ME UP IN PRAYER,
ASKING FOR MY HEALING AND
RECOVERY.
PLEASE DO NOT STOP PRAYING FOR
THE PEOPLE OF LIBERIA AND WEST
AFRICA, AND FOR A QUICK END TO
THIS EBOLA EPIDEMIC.
>> Woodruff: AFTER HIS REMARKS,
BRANTLY AND HIS WIFE HUGGED EACH
ONE OF THE PHYSICIANS AND NURSES
THAT CARED FOR HIM.
DOCTOR BRUCE RIBNER, MEDICAL
DIRECTOR OF THE HOSPITAL'S
INFECTIOUS DISEASE UNIT, TOUCHED
ON THE BOND HIS TEAM DEVELOPED
WITH BRANTLY.
>> THERE WAS A VERY STRONG
EMOTIONAL AS WELL AS HEALTH CARE
INTERACTION THAT OCCURRED AND
THE HUGGING AND HANDSHAKING WAS
JUST A DEMONSTRATION OF THE
STRONG FEELINGS THAT DEVELOPED
OVER THAT THREE WEEK PERIOD OF
TIME.
IF THE HUGGING TRANSMIT THE
MESSAGE THAT WE DON'T THINK HE'S
CONTAGIOUS I THINK THAT WOULD BE
ACCURATE.
>> Woodruff: DOCTOR RIBNER ALSO
SAID THAT 59-YEAR-OLD NANCY
WRITEBOL, WHO WAS ALSO BEING
TREATED AT EMORY FOR EBOLA, HAD
BEEN DISCHARGED EARLIER THIS
WEEK.
AT HER REQUEST, HER DEPARTURE
WAS NOT ANNOUNCED AT THAT TIME.
>> THE MEDICAL STAFF HERE AT
EMORY IS CONFIDENT THAT THE
DISCHARGE FROM THE HOSPITAL OF
BOTH OF THESE PATIENTS POSES NO
PUBLIC HEALTH THREAT.
EBOLA VIRUS IS A NEW INFECTION
ON THIS CONTINENT, BUT OUR
COLLEAGUES ACROSS THE OCEAN HAVE
BEEN DEALING WITH IT FOR 40
YEARS NOW AND SO THERE IS STRONG
EPIDEMYOLOGIC EVIDENCE THAT ONCE
AN INDIVIDUAL HAS RESOLVED EBOLA
VIRUS INFECTION THEY ARE IMMUNE
TO THAT STRAIN.
RECOGNIZING THAT THERE ARE FIVE
DIFFERENT STRAINS OF EBOLA
VIRUS.
>> Woodruff: BOTH BRANTLY AND
WRITEBOL RECEIVED TREATMENT WITH
THE EXPERIMENTAL DRUG "Z-MAPP"
WHILE IN LIBERIA, BUT THE EMORY
TEAM SAID THE ROLE IT PLAYED IN
THEIR TREATMENT IS UNKNOWN.
>> THEY ARE THE VERY FIRST
INDIVIDUALS TO RECEIVE THIS
AGENT.
THERE IS NO PRIOR EXPERIENCE
WITH IT AND FRANKLY WE DO NOT
KNOW WHETHER IT HELPED THEM,
WHETHER IT MADE NO DIFFERENCE OR
EVEN THEORETICALLY IF IT DELAYED
THEIR RECOVERY.
>> Woodruff: RIBNER WENT ON TO
SAY HIS STAFF WOULD PASS ALONG
GUIDELINES TO THOSE DOCTORS
STILL FIGHTING EBOLA IN WEST
AFRICA.
>> WE ARE IN THE PROCESS OF
WORKING WITH A NUMBER OF MEDICAL
JOURNALS AND OTHER ORGANS TO
DISSEMINATE THE OBSERVATIONS WE
MADE IN THE CARE OF THESE TWO
PATIENTS.
THE PROVIDERS IN AFRICA WILL BE
ABLE TO READ THE ARTICLE WE
WRITE BUT IN ADDITION WE ARE
PLANNING TO MAKE SOME PROVIDER
SPECIFIC INFORMATION AVAILABLE
TO THEM.
SO AGAIN, WE ARE HOPEFUL THAT
WHAT WE LEARNED HERE WILL ASSIST
OUR COLLEAGUES IN AFRICA IN
CARING FOR THESE CRITICALLY ILL
PATIENTS.
>> Woodruff: KENT BRANTLY TOLD
REPORTERS HE WILL TAKE SOME TIME
OFF WITH HIS FAMILY BEFORE
ADDRESSING THE MEDIA AGAIN, BUT
DOCTORS WILL CONTINUE TO MONITOR
HIM AND NANCY WRITEBOL THROUGH
FOLLOW UP VISITS.
ONLINE, WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
EBOLA VIRUS AT THE MOLECULAR
LEVEL TO EXPLAIN WHAT MAKES IT
SO DEADLY.
READ THAT, ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF
THE DAY: THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
OPENED A CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION
INTO THE MURDER OF AMERICAN
JOURNALIST JAMES FOLEY IN SYRIA
AND PENTAGON LEADERS DEFENDED A
RAID THAT TRIED AND FAILED TO
FIND FOLEY AND OTHER HOSTAGES.
BANK OF AMERICA AGREED TO PAY
NEARLY $17-BILLION IN A RECORD
SETTLEMENT.
IT INVOLVES FEDERAL CHARGES OVER
MORTGAGE-BASED SECURITIES THAT
COLLAPSED IN THE HOUSING
MELTDOWN.
AND THE GOVERNOR OF MISSOURI
ORDERED THE NATIONAL GUARD TO
BEGIN WITHDRAWING FROM FERGUSON.
UNREST OVER THE POLICE SHOOTING
OF A BLACK TEENAGER HAS EASED
SOME THE LAST TWO NIGHTS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW-- SHE WAS JUST A GIRL WHEN A
TALIBAN GN
SCHOOL BUS AND NEARLY ENDED HER
LIFE, BUT NOW, AT 17, THE HUMAN
RIGHTS ACTIVIST MALALA YOUSAFZAI
HAS NOT PAUSED ON HER MISSION TO
EDUCATE GIRLS AND PROMOTE
DEMOCRACY.
SHE WAS IN NEW YORK THIS WEEK
AND SAT DOWN WITH HARI TO TALK
ABOUT RECENT PROTESTS IN HER
NATIVE PAKISTAN.
WATCH THEIR CONVERSATION ON THE
RUNDOWN.
TOMORROW HARI WILL BE SPEAKING
TO THE WOMAN WHO INSPIRED
"ORANGE IS THE NEW BLACK."
HE IS ASKING FANS TO SUBMIT
QUESTIONS FOR PIPER.
YOU CAN READ THOSE ON THE
RUNDOWN.
ALL THOSE AND MORE ON OUR
WEB SITE pbs.org/NewsHour.
ON FRIDAY, MARGARET WARNER
CONTINUES REPORTING FROM THE
FRONT LINES IN THE BATTLE
AGAINST ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS IN
IRAQ.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FROM ALL OF US AT THE PBS
"NewsHour", THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.